packets without challenge are valid (#442)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

packet number space.

To add a new path to an existing QUIC connection with multipath support,
a client starts a path validation on
a client starts a path validation or sends a packet on
the chosen path, as further described in {{path-initiation}}.
A new path can only be used once the associated 4-tuple has been validated
by ensuring that the peer is able to receive packets at that address

> (see {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

Reviewer: Why did you remove this sentence? I think t's correct and simply part of the summary overview at the beginning. It is still true that a path/address as to be validated before using it. It's just the case that we a) can't enforce that validation by the other end and b) there can be other way to validate than sending a path challenge. However, this sentence doesn't say anything about these two points.

Author: I will try to rewrite.

Author: Rewritten in
[Rewrite per review feedback.](https://github.com/quicwg/multipath/pull/442/commits/9f74f86bb43f5509f4f49e60e61aac40a1f6679a)

> of a path, but it can validate a new path created by a client.

Reviewer: I think this is also confusing because there is effectively not really something that explicitly initiates the path.

Author: There is: using a connection ID that reference a new path. That's unambiguous, and crypto protected.

packet number space.

To add a new path to an existing QUIC connection with multipath support,

> a client starts a path validation or sends a packet on

Reviewer: Maybe be simply less concrete (as the next sentence already talks about address validation):
```suggestion
a client sends a packet with a connection ID belonging to a so-far unused Path ID on
```

it MUST pick a Connection ID with the same Path ID for sending the PATH_RESPONSE.

When the multipath extension is negotiated, a client that wants to use an

> additional path SHOULD first initiate the Address Validation procedure
> with PATH_CHALLENGE and PATH_RESPONSE frames as described in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional path MUST validate the peer's address before sending any data packets 
as described in
```

{{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}. It MAY skip the validation and
simply send packets on the paths if it has previously validated

> that address.

Reviewer: We discussed in the meeting that we want a MUST here but don't say that path validation would require sending a path challenge but rather just refer to RFC9000 instead.

Author: I know we discussed that. But we also agreed that packets received from the peer should be processed and acknowledged. To acknowledge, the receiving peer has to create a "path context". We need to thread the needle through a fine hole...

The critical issue is that the peer address could be spoofed, as stated in section 9.2 of RFC 9000. Thus, address validation is required. It is not perfect.

I will try to rewrite that without any MUST/SHOULD/MAY, with simply a reference to RFC 9000.

Reviewer: Yes, address validation is required, however, if you have valid the address previously or in a different way, you don't need to the the QUIC path challenge/response mechanism. Therefore the agreement in the session was to have a MUST for address validation but not explicitly say that it has to be performed by using path challenge/response instead but just provide a point to RFC9000. See my proposed wording.

Author: @mirjak, I think the commit [Rewrite per review feedback](https://github.com/quicwg/multipath/pull/442/commits/9f74f86bb43f5509f4f49e60e61aac40a1f6679a) incorporates the text that we agreed upon. Please review!

After receiving packets from the
client on a new path, if the server decides to use the new path,

> the server SHOULD perform path validation ({{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}})

Reviewer: Similarly we should keep the MUST here or not use normative language because this is also covered by the MUST above.

Author: I am concerned that receivers will treat the "PATH CHALLENGE" as a trigger to create a path context, and will drop packets that do not contain a path challenge. That can easily lead to interop issues.

Reviewer: The important part here is the "if a server decides to use the new path". However, we can also rephrase this and say more explicitly "before sending on a new path" or something.

But I actually thought the whole point of this PR was to explicitly clarify that even packets without a path challenge can create a new path as the other end is obligated to perform address validation but a) it can and shouldn't be enforced and b) it can be done by other means than sending a path challenge. Therefore to re-add this text to say valid packets have to be processed is probably good to ensure this is crystal clear.

it MUST pick a Connection ID with the same Path ID for sending the PATH_RESPONSE.

When the multipath extension is negotiated, a client that wants to use an
additional path MUST validate the peer's address before sending any data packets
as described in ({{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}),
unless it has previously validated the four-tuple used for that path.

After receiving packets from the
client on a new path, if the server decides to use the new path,
the server MUST validate the peer's address before sending any data packets
as described in ({{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}),
unless it has previously validated the four-tuple used for that path.
Until the client's address is
validated, the anti-amplification limit from {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}
applies.

The server may receive packets for a yet unused Path ID that do not
contain a path challenge. Such packets are valid if they can be properly decrypted
and if they contain a valid connection ID.

> Each endpoint MUST also validate that a minimum MTU of 1200 bytes is supported on the path. This can be done during initial path validation or separately later if the amplification limit prevents it initially, as specified in Section 8.2.1 of RFC9000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each endpoint MUST also validate that a minimum MTU of 1200 bytes is supported
on the path. This can be done during initial path validation or separately later if
the amplification limit prevents it initially, as specified in Section 8.2.1 of RFC9000.
```

it MUST pick a Connection ID with the same Path ID for sending the PATH_RESPONSE.

When the multipath extension is negotiated, a client that wants to use an
additional path MUST validate the peer's address before sending any data packets
as described in ({{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}),
unless it has previously validated the four-tuple used for that path.

After receiving packets from the
client on a new path, if the server decides to use the new path,
the server MUST validate the peer's address before sending any data packets
as described in ({{Section 8.2 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}),
unless it has previously validated the four-tuple used for that path.
Until the client's address is
validated, the anti-amplification limit from {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}
applies.

The server may receive packets for a yet unused Path ID that do not
contain a path challenge. Such packets are valid if they can be properly decrypted

> and if they contain a valid connection ID. The server SHOULD accept the

Reviewer: Not sure we need normative language here, or this sentence at all?

Author: Less is more. I will just remove the sentence.

packets arriving on that path from the client, and acknowledge them.

> As stated above, the server will perform path validation before sending
> packets on this new path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As stated above, the server independently need to perform path validation before sending
packets on this new path.
```

> applies.

Reviewer: Now we are stating this two points twice in two subsequence paragraphs...? I don't think this sentence is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> applies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applies.

Each endpoint MUST also validate that a minimum MTU of 1200 bytes is supported on the path. This can be done during initial path validation or separately later if the amplification limit prevents it initially, as specified in Section 8.2.1 of RFC9000.
```

any of the previously validated addresses. Further guidance on token usage can be
found in {{Section 8.1.3 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}.

### Immediate path initiation

> The server may receive packets for a yet unused path-ID that do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server may receive packets for a yet unused Path ID that do not
```

contain a path challenge. Such packets are valid if the can be properly decrypted
and if they contain a valid connection ID. ({{path-initiation}}
specifies that the client may send data packets immediately if "it has previously
validated that address".) The server SHOULD create a new path, accept the
packets arriving on that path from the client, and acknowledge them.

If the server decides to not accept the packet, it MUST close the path as

> specified in {{path-close}}.

Reviewer: I don't think this really makes sense or actually not even sure what you mean by accepting a packet. You receive a packet from a valid (not-yet used) Path ID; you decrypt it and as we say above this valid not matter what's in there. So either we don't need this sentence at all or maybe you want to say something like if the receiver does not want to open this path, it has to abandon it explicitly.

Author: We have another comment about maybe not create a separate section. I can try moving the first paragraph in the main text.

## Request Forgery with Spoofed Address

The path validation mechanism as specified in {{Section 8.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} for migration is used
unchanged for initiation of new paths in this extension. Therefore, the security considerations
on source address spoofing as outlined in {{Section 21.5.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} equally apply.
Similarly, the anti-amplification limits as specified in {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} need to be
followed to limit the amplification risk.

However, while {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} only allows the use of one path simultaneously
and therefore only one path migration at the time should be validated,
this extension allows for multiple open paths, that could in theory be migrated
all at the same time, and it allows for multiple paths that could be initialized
simultaneously. Therefore, each path could be used to further amplify an attack.
Endpoints needs limit the number of maximum paths and might consider
additional measures to limit the number of concurrent path validation processes
e.g. by pacing them out or limiting the number of path initiation attempts
over a certain time period.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
